+++
title = "Agile Japan 2011"
slug = "2011-04-16-agile-japan-2011"
published = 2011-04-16T22:15:00.001000+09:00
author = "David Dibben"
tags = [ "Agile Conference Japan",]
+++
Despite the fact that the study of Japanese companies by Nonaka and
Takeuchi in their seminal paper [“The new new product development
game”](http://hbr.org/product/new-new-product-development-game/an/86116-PDF-ENG)
 is credited with giving the name to
[Scrum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28development%29)  I don’t
see a widespread adoption of agile methods for software development in
Japan. Certainly at the large IT company where I work, process heavy
waterfall style development seems to be the norm. A couple of years ago,
the “quality division” tried to introduce a waterfall process in order
to unify the process across all projects in the company to improve
“quality.” This effort demonstrated everything that was wrong about
imposing heavy defined processes and fortunately our division
successfully opted out.  
  
  
  
Introducing change anywhere is hard and I struggle to improve our
development process. Two of the problems that I face are that agile
methods do not seem well known, at least among my colleagues, and a
belief that such techniques may work in America but would not work in
Japan. This made me especially happy to be able to attend [Agile Japan
2011](http://www.agilejapan.org/)  because the keynote speaker was Linda
Rising, talking about introducing change, and it was a chance for my
colleagues to see that Agile is used in Japan.  
  
The main conference was held in Tokyo but there were 10 satellite
conferences held around Japan, from Okinawa to Hokkaido, including one
in Sendai. Because there was a satellite conference in Osaka it was easy
for me to take the whole team. Initially I was expecting just a video
link to Tokyo, and this was the case for the morning session. But for
the afternoon they had a local program – with parallel sessions! There
seemed to be about 60 attendees in Osaka.  
  
In the keynote from [Linda Rising](http://www.lindarising.org/) she
discussed her favourite patterns from [“Fearless
Change.”](http://www.amazon.com/Fearless-Change-Patterns-Introducing-Ideas/dp/0201741571)
I had read this book some time ago and it was a nice refresher of the
patterns. I will definitely have to re-read the book again. The comment
that seemed to resonate most was “Just do it!”. This presentation is now
on [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOu4S-uv6lw)  
  
  
The first presentation in Osaka in the afternoon was by Kawabata
Mitsuyoshi of [Agileware](http://agileware.jp/)  talking about the 5
eXtreme Programing values. The most interesting part of this
presentation for me was the specific difficulties of doing agile in
Japan. XP values face to face communication but often when you want to
discuss an issue the response is “I will send an email” or “let’s
discuss it later.” This is something I have noticed myself with
developers using email to “communicate” with someone a few meters away.
I doubt that this problem is unique to Japan though.

  
  
The second session I attended in the afternoon was a workshop by
[Tarumoto Tetsuya](http://www.usablog.jp/)  on  Usability Testing and
more specifically DIY usability testing when you can’t afford or wait
for a professionally run usability test. This included a very
interesting description of the usability testing for the [Suica
 ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suica)contactless smart card used for JR
railways in Tokyo.

  
  
To demonstrate how to run a test, asking the users what they are
thinking rather than asking them their opinion of the software being
tested the workshop included a Kanji game. Unfortunately this was
completely impossible for me, lacking the many years of hard study of
Kanji which all Japanese have at school.

  
  
Overall the conference was very well run, had some interesting
presentations and I definitely hope that there will be an Agile Japan
2012 and that I will be able to go.
