+++
title = "Developer Summit 2012 in Kansai"
slug = "2012-09-23-developer-summit-2012-in-kansai"
published = 2012-09-23T16:23:00+09:00
author = "David Dibben"
tags = []
+++
<span lang="EN-US">The
[DeveloperSummit](http://codezine.jp/devsumi/2012/kansai)</span><span
lang="EN-US"> was a free one day conference (in Japanese) for developers
held in Kobe, Japan.  It is nice to see more of these events taking
place in Kansai rather than just in Tokyo. This event was very popular
with several of the sessions being completely full.</span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">The keynote presentation was from Oikawa Takuya, one
of the Japanese developers on the Google Chrome team. The main theme was
the changes in project management style required when developing for
“the cloud.” Out is the old style product lifecycle with releases every
few years and in is the “versionless” development with very frequent or
“continuous” releases.  Also, the use of open source and the challenges
that brings to development when contributions from many people must be
integrated. This was an interesting presentation giving some insight
into the how Google develops some of its software and Chrome in
particular.</span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">The first presentation on the “Agile” track was from
a Microsoft evangelist entitled “Continuous value delivery to the next
decade.”  This presentation also discussed the differences between
waterfall and agile development and how development is done at
Microsoft. However, the whole presentation seemed like an advert for
TFS. The main point seemed to be the advantages of using a single tool
for project management, bug tracking version control etc rather than
several different tools. And Microsoft just happens to have such a tool.
This seemed to me like agile for those who want to say they are doing
agile but don’t want to change too much. The process seemed to be more
like a series of mini-waterfalls backed up by comprehensive tools.
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">Following the Google and Microsoft promotions we had
an advertising spot for
[JIRA](http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/overview) (the bug
tracking system from Atlassian) given by Suzuki Yusuke, an engineer from
[Growth xPartners](http://www.gxp.co.jp/)</span><span
lang="EN-US"> which seems to be an Atlassian partner in Japan. This was
less a less subtle promotion since the presenter even included a price
list for JIRA in one of the slides. After yet another description of
waterfall and agile processes (the third so far) the presenter stressed
the importance of collaboration and communication in Agile development.
 I would not argue with that, but I am sure that there is more to
communication than a bug tracking system. The middle part of the
presentation described how “Agile is implemented in the bug tracking
system.” The idea seems to be to use JIRA to hold the list of tasks to
be done and to act as the communication medium for the team. </span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">We use JIRA as a bug tracking system and it seems to
be one of the best bug trackers available. However, I often see it as
blocking rather than enabling communication. Instead of direct
communication between individuals, communication is via comments on an
issue. This leads to misunderstandings and delays. Also because it is so
easy to create an issue the “backlog” quickly becomes an unmanageable
black hole into which requests and improvement suggestions are sent to
be forgotten. </span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">I suppose that not surprisingly, from a company
selling the bug tracker there was no suggestion that the use of a bug
tracker is itself actually a symptom of a bigger problem.  A truly agile
team would probably have no use for a bug tracker.</span>

  

<span lang="EN-US">The presentation that I was most looking forward to
was that by Wachi Yukei on “The evolution of test driven development.”
He is one of the translators of [“GrowingObject Oriented Software Guided
by Tests”](http://amzn.com/0321503627), the [Japanese
version](http://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/4798124583) of which was just
released on the same day as the developer summit. This presentation gave
an overview of GOOS. The description of Mocks was fairly hard to follow
and my Japanese colleagues who were not familiar with mocks did not seem
to understand it at all.  Actually the biggest problem seemed to be the
direct transliteration of English expressions into Japanese, such as
“walking skeleton.” This is not a problem for me as an English speaker –
in fact it makes it easier – but makes it hard for non-English speakers
to understand. However, the presentation did include a lot of good stuff
from GOOS such as the need for end-to-end tests and thin slices of
functionality. I am not quite sure on the relevance of the photo of
David Cameron.</span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

  

  

<span
style="color: #333333; font-family: &quot;Arial&quot;,&quot;sans-serif&quot;; font-size: 15.0pt;">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">Many of the presentations are on SlideShare (in
Japanese)</span>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">Continuous value delivery to the next decade:</span>

<http://www.slideshare.net/tomohn/a1-continuous-value-delivery-to-the-next-decade>

  

Collaboration in enterprise development – how to connect the development
team with customers using JIRA

<http://www.slideshare.net/yusuke/2012a2>

<span lang="EN-US">  
</span>

<span lang="EN-US">The evolution of test driven development</span>

<http://www.slideshare.net/digitalsoul0124/ss-14351848>
